FOCUS #497: SkuPriceDetails column (#503)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/skupricedetails.md

# SKU Price Details

The **SKU Price Details** column represents a list of relevant properties shared by all resources having the same [**SKU Price ID**](#skupriceid) which are not captured in another FOCUS column. These properties enable a practitioner to more easily understand the differences that make up the multiple **SKU Price IDs** under a given [**SKU ID**](#skuid).

The _SkuPriceDetails_ column adheres to the following requirements:

* The properties (both key and value) contained in the _SkuPriceDetails_ column **MUST** be shared across all resources having the same _SkuPriceId_.
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column **MUST** be in [_KeyValueFormat_](#key-valueformat).
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column **SHOULD NOT** contain properties which are not applicable to the corresponding _SkuPriceId_.
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column **SHOULD NOT** contain properties which are already captured in the [_SkuDetails_](#skudetails) column.

> * Where _SkuPriceDetails_ contains a property with a value which is a numerical, the value provided **MUST** represent the value for a [_ConsumedUnit_](#consumedunit) of 1.

Author: ```suggestion
* Where _SkuPriceDetails_ contains a property with a value which is a numerical, the value provided **MUST** represent the value for a [_ConsumedQuantity_](#consumedquantity) of 1.
```

# SKU Price Details

The **SKU Price Details** column represents a list of relevant properties shared by all resources having the same [**SKU Price ID**](#skupriceid) which are not captured in another FOCUS column. These properties enable a practitioner to more easily understand the differences that make up the multiple **SKU Price IDs** under a given [**SKU ID**](#skuid).

The _SkuPriceDetails_ column adheres to the following requirements:

> * The properties (both key and value) contained in the _SkuPriceDetails_ column **MUST** be shared across all resources having the same _SkuPriceId_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The properties (both key and value) contained in the _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST be shared across all resources having the same _SkuPriceId_.
```

> * The _SkuPriceDetails_ column **MUST** be in [_KeyValueFormat_](#key-valueformat).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST be in [_KeyValueFormat_](#key-valueformat).
```

> * The _SkuPriceDetails_ column **SHOULD NOT** contain properties which are not applicable to the corresponding _SkuPriceId_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column SHOULD NOT contain properties which are not applicable to the corresponding _SkuPriceId_.
```

> * The _SkuPriceDetails_ column **SHOULD NOT** contain properties which are already captured in the [_SkuDetails_](#skudetails) column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column SHOULD NOT contain properties which are already captured in the [_SkuDetails_](#skudetails) column.
```

> * Where _SkuPriceDetails_ contains a property with a value which is a numerical, the value provided **MUST** represent the value for a [_ConsumedQuantity_](#consumedquantity) of 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Where _SkuPriceDetails_ contains a property with a value which is a numerical, the value provided MUST represent the value for a [_ConsumedQuantity_](#consumedquantity) of 1.
```

> * The key for a property **SHOULD** remain consistent across comparable SKUs having that property and the values for this key **SHOULD** remain in a consistent format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The key for a property SHOULD remain consistent across comparable SKUs having that property and the values for this key SHOULD remain in a consistent format.
```

> * The key for a property **SHOULD** be formatted in PascalCase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The key for a property SHOULD be formatted in PascalCase.
```

> * Properties included in _SkuPriceDetails_ **SHOULD** be immutable once included for a _SkuPriceId_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Properties included in _SkuPriceDetails_ SHOULD be immutable once included for a _SkuPriceId_.
```

# SKU Price Details

The **SKU Price Details** column represents a list of relevant properties shared by all resources having the same [**SKU Price ID**](#skupriceid) which are not captured in another FOCUS column. These properties enable a practitioner to more easily understand the differences that make up the multiple **SKU Price ID**s under a given [**SKU ID**](#skuid).

The _SkuPriceDetails_ column adheres to the following requirements:

* The properties (both key and value) contained in the _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST be shared across all resources having the same _SkuPriceId_.
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST be in [_KeyValueFormat_](#key-valueformat).
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column SHOULD NOT contain properties which are not applicable to the corresponding _SkuPriceId_.

> * The _SkuPriceDetails_ column SHOULD NOT contain properties which are already captured in the [_SkuDetails_](#skudetails) column.

Reviewer 2: FYI - I don't have a way to do this at scale. I get it's a SHOULD NOT, which is fine, but I'm calling it out because I don't see how this will ever be scalable without a significant change across hundreds of teams. I'm assuming other providers are the same.

Author: ACK. Leaving this comment  open for when I try to put together supporting content.

Author: This is redundant as this clause was eliminated when SKU Details was eliminated in favor of only having the SKU Price Details column.

> * The _SkuPriceDetails_ column SHOULD NOT contain properties which are already captured in the [_SkuDetails_](#skudetails) column.

Reviewer 2: This presents a significant usability problem for practitioners because they need to intimately understand the difference between SkuId and SkuPriceId, which we don't actually define well in the spec. Splitting attributes across two JSON objects will make it harder for people to find the details they care about because in some cases it may be in one and others in the other. From a usability perspective, this sounds like a horrible idea. 

As a product owner, I would never do this without a usability test. I don't think we should be doing it here either. We should start with one and split it out if there's a reason that doesn't work. If we add 2, then we're creating a usability problem upfront that will be incredibly hard to pull back. It's always easier to add something than remove something, so starting with a single SKU details column is just simpler and safer all-around.

* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column SHOULD NOT contain properties which are not applicable to the corresponding _SkuPriceId_.
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column MAY contain properties which are already captured in other dedicated columns.
* Where _SkuPriceDetails_ contains a property with a value which is a numerical, the value provided MUST represent the value for a [_ConsumedQuantity_](#consumedquantity) of 1.

> * Properties included in _SkuPriceDetails_ SHOULD be immutable once included for a _SkuPriceId_.

Reviewer 3: Can we make it clear that some properties are allowed to added - but we don't want existing properties to be changed.

Author: Modified in most recent commit

> # SKU Price Details

Reviewer 2: Just to document my position here, I would rather call this "SKU Details" to simplify our overall concepts. I understand it's about the lower level SkuPriceId, but that also adds more complexity to the dataset by adding a third level. I would rather see all SKU properties together in a single bucket without introducing a third level (SKU > properties vs. SKU > Price > properties).

Reviewer 4: I support this. In the current exports using FOCUS, SkuId and SkuPriceId from Azure are the same. For Google, SkuPriceId is concatenated with additional data to make a new Id that is not the same as SkuId and is blank where SkuId relates to Tax and adjustments or corrections. So if Providers dont have a different Id for each column then SkuId column should be used and SkuDetails would be better to align to SkuId.

Reviewer 2: Side note: I believe the SkuId == SkuPriceId in Microsoft data is a bug. I need to investigate. Let's not make any decisions based on that. They should be different.

Reviewer 4: Ok will wait on your feedback

Author: We previously had 2 columns, SkuDetails and SkuPriceDetails, but after a suggestion and subsequent conversation in TF2, we consolidated them to 1 column. The thought on it being SkuPriceDetails is that if we only have one field, this is more granular and it could hold properties of both SkuId as well as SkuPriceId. SkuDetails wouldn't support any properties of SkuPriceId (e.g. details about tiering start and end values) because that property wouldn't be the same across all SkuPriceIds within that SkuId.

I'm intending a follow-up change to SkuPriceId to indicate that because a number of fields are properties of SkuPriceId (including this and list price, for example), the value for SkuId can be repeated for SkuPriceId, assuming that it doesn't violate any of the corresponding column requirements (one price, one set of properties, etc.)

Author: Follow up PR #530 submitted, per above comment

The **SKU Price Details** column represents a list of relevant properties shared by all resources having the same [**SKU Price ID**](#skupriceid). These properties enable a practitioner to more easily calculate metrics such as total units of a service when it is not directly billed in those units (e.g. cores) and thus enables FinOps capabilities such as unit economics. They also help a practitioner understand the specifics of a **SKU Price ID**.

The _SkuPriceDetails_ column adheres to the following requirements:

* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST be in [_KeyValueFormat_](#key-valueformat).
* The key for a property SHOULD be formatted in [PascalCase](#glossary:pascalcase).

> * The properties (both keys and values) contained in the _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST be shared across all charges having the same _SkuPriceId_.

Reviewer 2: I feel like this should be a SHOULD. While I don't want to block on this, I'm not sure whether large cloud providers can feasibly do this. This means that, if we want to add a new attribute, then we have to generate a new SkuPriceId. That would impact many teams and how these things are tracked and managed in these large companies. I suspect that this will end up being a "gap" in any provider due to the scale we're working at.

Author: This is saying that the set of properties (both keys and values) must apply to all occurrences of a SkuPriceId. Resolved by moving other clauses around to provide clarity.

> * The key for a property SHOULD remain consistent across comparable SKUs having that property and the values for this key SHOULD remain in a consistent format.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to say it MUST be consistent across rows with the same SkuId? We can add that later in a separate PR. Just thinking out loud.

Author: This line is communicating that you shouldn't include a property of {"Cores" : 12} in one SkuId/SkuPriceId and a property of {"vCPUs" : "8.0"} in another related one. I feel that going more strongly on that statement would almost necessitate us to define specific properties we desire to be used.

Reading your comment another way, it's already explicit in the definition of SkuPriceId that it's a child of SkuId: "A given value of SkuPriceId MUST be associated with one and only one SkuId, except in cases of commitment discount flexibility."

> * The _SkuPriceDetails_ column SHOULD NOT contain properties which are not applicable to the corresponding _SkuPriceId_.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be a MUST NOT?
```suggestion
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST NOT contain properties which are not applicable to the corresponding _SkuPriceId_.
```

Author: I believe my thinking was that "properties which are not applicable" is loose enough of a statement that it would be hard to say (enforce) a MUST. If your VMs have a property about ephemeral disk, would that property be applicable to D8sv5 which does not have an ephemeral disk? I think that if the D8dsv5 had the property, I'd expect it to be on D8sv5 as well, even though the fact that it doesn't have one could be interpreted to mean that it's not applicable.

However, I sense you're reading this as something egregious like including a property communicating the number of cores on every resource (network, disks, PaaS, etc.). Planning to incorporate this change, but leaving the thread open for a little longer in case more people want to weigh in.

* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column MAY contain properties which are already captured in other dedicated columns.

> * Properties in _SkuPriceDetails_ which have a numerical value MUST represent the value for a the individual [_ConsumedUnit_](#consumedunit) i.e. a [_ConsumedQuantity_](#consumedquantity) of 1.

Reviewer 2: There's a typo with "a the" in here. I still feel like it's a bit confusing so not sure how to change that. I feel like this is more straightforward. I don't have a blocking issue with this text. I just feel it could be a little clearer. Feel free to resolve if it's just me.
```suggestion
* Numeric properties in _SkuDetails_ MUST represent the value for a single [_ConsumedUnit_](#consumedunit).
```

Author: A property is the key and value, which is why I was specifying the property's value as numeric. I like the way you've phrased it, so here's my attempt.
"If a property has a numeric value, it must represent the value for a single [_ConsumedUnit_](#consumedunit)."

> * Additional properties (key-value pairs) MAY be added to _SkuPriceDetails_ for a _SkuPriceId_.

Reviewer 2: What does "additional" reference? Is this saying we can add to SkuDetails over time, just not remove anything from it? If so, that addresses my primary concern with the MUST statement above. Should we move this up to be a sub-bullet so they're linked more explicitly?

Author: That's correct. I'll move it up a few lines and resolve these comments.

  * Properties SHOULD NOT be removed from _SkuPriceDetails_ for a _SkuPriceId_, once they have been included.
  * Individual properties (key-value pairs) SHOULD NOT be modified for a _SkuPriceId_.

## Examples

```json
{

>     "OperationClass": "A",

Reviewer 5: We should likely have a set of examples in the appendix for this.

    "PricingTier": 2,
    "CoreHours": 4,
    "PreimumProcessing": true,
}
```

## Column ID

SkuPriceDetails

## Display Name

SKU Price Details

## Description

A set of properties of a **SKU Price ID** which are meaningful and common to all instances of that **SKU Price ID**

## Content Constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value       |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension        |

> | Feature level   | Conditional      |

Reviewer 2: This is listed as conditional, but I don't see any condition for when it's required. When is it required?

Reviewer 5: Feature level is where we specify if it is required, correct?

Author: Yes and the condition for it to be present is now included in the normative section.

# SKU Price Details

> The **SKU Price Details** column represents a list of relevant properties shared by all resources having the same [**SKU Price ID**](#skupriceid). These properties enable a practitioner to more easily calculate metrics such as total units of a service when it is not directly billed in those units (e.g. cores) and thus enables FinOps capabilities such as unit economics. They also help a practitioner understand the specifics of a **SKU Price ID**. 

Reviewer 2: I believe this is about "charges" and not resources, given purchases will also have this and resources can have many SkuPriceId rows that may not be directly related to the resource, like bandwidth.
```suggestion
The **SKU Price Details** column represents a list of relevant properties shared by all charges with the same [**SKU Price ID**](#skupriceid). These properties enable practitioners to calculate metrics such as total units of a service when it is not directly billed in those units (e.g. cores) and thus enables FinOps capabilities such as unit economics. They also help a practitioner understand the specifics of a **SKU Price ID**.
```

Author: Thank you. I had reflected your terminology feedback in the normative section, but didn't in the introduction. I was looking for a better term for this [since the beginning](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/503#issuecomment-2218426679), but you nailed it.

- The key for a property SHOULD be formatted in [PascalCase](#glossary:pascalcase).
- The properties (both keys and values) contained in the *SkuPriceDetails* column MUST be shared across all charges having the same *SkuPriceId*, subject to the below provisions.
  - Additional properties (key-value pairs) MAY be added to *SkuPriceDetails* going forward for a given *SkuPriceId*.
  - Properties SHOULD NOT be removed from *SkuPriceDetails* for a given *SkuPriceId*, once they have been included.
  - Individual properties (key-value pairs) SHOULD NOT be modified for a given *SkuPriceId* and SHOULD remain consistent over time.
- The key for a property SHOULD remain consistent across comparable SKUs having that property and the values for this key SHOULD remain in a consistent format.
- The *SkuPriceDetails* column MUST NOT contain properties which are not applicable to the corresponding *SkuPriceId*.
- The *SkuPriceDetails* column MAY contain properties which are already captured in other dedicated columns.
- If a property has a numeric value, it MUST represent the value for a single [*PricingUnit*](#pricingunit).

> - The *SkuPriceDetils* column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider includes a *SkuPriceID*.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- The *SkuPriceDetails* column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider includes a *SkuPriceId*.
```

Question: 
Should we also specify when it MUST and MUST NOT be null? For instance, _SkuPriceDetails MUST be null when SkuPriceId is null, and MUST NOT be null when SkuPriceId is not null._

# SKU Price Details

> The **SKU Price Details** column represents a list of relevant properties shared by all charges with the same [**SKU Price ID**](#skupriceid). These properties enable practitioners to calculate metrics such as total units of a service when it is not directly billed in those units (e.g. cores) and thus enables FinOps capabilities such as unit economics. They also help a practitioner understand the specifics of a **SKU Price ID**.

Reviewer 3: These properties can provide qualitative and quantitative details about the product represented by the SKU. They may enable practitioners to calculate...

The _SkuPriceDetails_ column adheres to the following requirements:

* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST be in [_KeyValueFormat_](#key-valueformat).
* The key for a property SHOULD be formatted in [PascalCase](#glossary:pascalcase).
* The properties (both keys and values) contained in the _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST be shared across all charges having the same _SkuPriceId_.
  * Additional properties (key-value pairs) MAY be added to _SkuPriceDetails_ for a _SkuPriceId_.
  * Properties SHOULD NOT be removed from _SkuPriceDetails_ for a _SkuPriceId_, once they have been included.

>   * Individual properties (key-value pairs) SHOULD NOT be modified for a _SkuPriceId_.

Reviewer 3: Individual properties (key-value pairs) SHOULD NOT be modified for a given SkuPriceId. They should be the same every time they appear for that SkuPriceId.

Author: Took another go at this to incorporate your feedback without breaking into 2 sentences.
"Individual properties (key-value pairs) SHOULD NOT be modified for a _SkuPriceId_ and SHOULD remain consistent over time."

The other aspect of your statement is covered in row 10, which this is a sub-bullet under.

Author: Also added "given" to each of these 3 sub-bullets.

* The key for a property SHOULD remain consistent across comparable SKUs having that property and the values for this key SHOULD remain in a consistent format.
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column MUST NOT contain properties which are not applicable to the corresponding _SkuPriceId_.
* The _SkuPriceDetails_ column MAY contain properties which are already captured in other dedicated columns.

> * If a property has a numeric value, it must represent the value for a single [_ConsumedUnit_](#consumedunit).

Reviewer 7: This needs to be pricing unit NOT consumed unit. Pricing unit is what the list unit price correlates to and therefore is the unit of measure that the charge uses.
```suggestion
* If a property has a numeric value, it MUST represent the value for a single [_PricingUnit_](#pricingunit).
```

* Additional properties (key-value pairs) MAY be added to _SkuPriceDetails_ for a _SkuPriceId_.

>   * Properties SHOULD NOT be removed from _SkuPriceDetails_ for a _SkuPriceId_, once they have been included.

Reviewer 7: this is repeated in line 12

>   * Individual properties (key-value pairs) SHOULD NOT be modified for a _SkuPriceId_.

Reviewer 7: repeated in line 13

Author: Yep, this was the conflict I mentioned. All 3 lines got duplicated when merging a suggestion.
